The final builtin or structural directive
we’ll discuss is the NgClass directive.
The ngClass directive adds and removes CSS
classes on an HTML element.
So when something has happened in our application
that changes our state or updates a property
we’re able to add or remove styling to any
element that ngClass is declared inside of.
And this is an example of the most commonly
used application for NgClass.
We first need to wrap our directive in brackets.
This is another example of binding.
And this just means that we’re able to update
our Div element depending on the result of
the expression defined within these curly
brackets.
When defining our expression we first need
to wrap it in quotes, then add curly brackets
around our expression.
Inside here we first define the CSS class
we’re targeting also surrounded by quotes.
And again, this is the name of a class we’ve
defined inside our CSS stylesheet.
Which is followed by a colon and then the
name of a property or state that we want to
target.
Since this is an expression, we’re able
to display different CSS classes based on
different states by adding a comma.
In this example we’re going to display the
CSS class called redClass when our property
showImage is set to True.
And alternatively display the CSS class yellowClass
when our showImage is set to False.
In this example we’re using an Object to
form an expression.
NgClass can also be set equal to an array
or string which excepts just the class names
we want shown inside of that element.
Lets now test out NgClass inside of our application.
The first thing I want to do is define a couple
of new styles.
Opening up my styles.css file inside my css
folder I’m going to add 2 new classes here
at the top.
The first is called redClass which is going
to have a red background and then yellowClass
which is going to have a yellow background.
Now I’m going to open up my booksListComponent
html file and then just paste in my ngClass
expression right below my image.
And this is the same as the example that was
shown in our slide.
So we’ll load up our app.
And right away we get a big red line with
our class and the text ngClass Test.
Then if we click our Hide Image button, our
image is hidden and our background color for
our div element is changed to yellow.
NgClass can be a great way to adjust our styling
on the fly based on user inputs as well as
changes in state.